SELECT t1.job_id, t1.job_date, t1.job_status
FROM your_table_name t1
JOIN (
  SELECT job_id, MAX(job_date) AS max_job_date
  FROM your_table_name
  GROUP BY job_id
) t2
ON t1.job_id = t2.job_id AND t1.job_date = t2.max_job_date;



import os

file_path = "/path/to/your/file/example.txt"
file_extension = os.path.splitext(file_path)[1]

# To remove the dot (.) from the extension, you can use file_extension[1:]
print(file_extension)  # This will output: ".txt"





Handling small files in Hive can be challenging because it can lead to inefficient storage and query performance. When dealing with a control table in Hive where frequent inserts are happening, and small files are becoming an issue, you can consider several strategies to optimize the situation:

Consolidate Small Files:

Regularly run Hive processes or scripts to consolidate small files in the control table.
Use INSERT INTO ... OVERWRITE to overwrite the entire table with a larger file, removing the small files.
You can use the Hive CONCATENATE command to consolidate small ORC files.
Optimize File Formats:

Consider using a more efficient file format like ORC (Optimized Row Columnar) or Parquet, as they perform better with small and large files.
Convert your existing data into ORC or Parquet format using Hive's INSERT INTO ... SELECT statement.
Bucketing and Partitioning:

If your control table has a considerable amount of data, consider bucketing and partitioning to improve performance.
Partitioning divides your data into smaller, manageable parts, while bucketing organizes data within each partition further, reducing the number of files in each bucket.
Adjusting Write Frequency:

If possible, batch your inserts into larger transactions instead of performing individual inserts. This can reduce the number of small files created.
Hive Compaction:

Use Hive's built-in compaction feature to merge small files into larger ones. This can be configured using parameters like hive.exec.dynamic.partition.mode and hive.exec.orc.default.stripe.size.
Optimize Write Operations:

If the inserts are happening as a result of batch jobs, try to ensure that each batch job inserts a reasonable amount of data. Avoid very small inserts.
Data Archiving and Cleanup:

Regularly archive and clean up historical or unnecessary data in the control table to prevent the accumulation of small files.Regularly archive and clean up historical or unnecessary data in the control table to prevent the accumulation of small files.
Monitoring and Maintenance:

Continuously monitor the size and number of files in the control table.
Set up automated jobs to periodically perform file consolidation and maintenance.
Adjusting Hive Configuration:

Tune Hive configuration parameters like hive.exec.reducers.bytes.per.reducer, hive.merge.mapfiles, and hive.merge.smallfiles.avgsize to optimize the file merge process.
Load Data in Buckets:

If you decide to use bucketing, make sure you load data into buckets directly, so it's organized from the start.
Consider External Tables:

If your control table is frequently updated, consider using an external table instead. This way, you can manage the data files separately and reduce the impact of small files on the control table.
Use ACID Transactions:

If you need to support frequent inserts and updates, consider using Hive ACID transactions, which can help maintain data consistency while minimizing small file issues.
Implementing these strategies should help you manage and optimize your control table in Hive, reducing the impact of small files and improving query performance. The specific approach you choose will depen